<a name="tiaras-html-theming-reference"></a>
# Tiara's HTML Theming Reference

This project is a HTML theming reference implementation for CSS-first,
frameworkless, static, modular, yet modern and contemporary HTML-theming for
traditionalist UNIX & GNU enthusiasts. It contains a complete workflow for
developing and distributing tested, decoupled, optimized and documented assets
for theming HTML documents. It has minimal build environment requirements and
UNIX-principled choices of matured build subsystems were made, avoiding
dependencies wherever possible.

This *HTML theme* is not a standalone component, even though it provides a
functional usability demonstration. Its output is meant to be integrated into
other components, say a [Sphinx](https://www.sphinx-doc.org), or
[Wordpress](https://wordpress.org) theme.

This project serves as a personal reference implementation and demonstration
of HTML document theming principles. It is shared in the spirit of openness,
with no immediate plans for external contributions.

## Requirements

### Build environment

The build environment requires the following programs:

- Git >=2.14
- GNU Autoconf >=v2.69 (optional, required only for maintenance)
- GNU Make >=v4.2.1
- Node.js >=v20.11.0
- npm (any version supported by Node.js)

### Integration

The web engine/browser displaying HTML documents themed with this reference
implementation MUST support (at least) the following standards:

- (WHATWG) HTML Living Standard 
- ECMAScript 2015 (ES6)
- CSS3 (exhaustive, it's gotten pretty difficult to assess properly)

## Usage

### Generate distribution

```
sh ./configure
```

It automatically checks for required programs. If any are missing, the script
halts and provides guidance on how to resolve the issue.

```
make
```

That's all. You will find a tarball distribution under `dist/`, including a
usability demonstration under `package/_docs/`.

To exclude the usability demonstration, execute the following:

```
make NO_DOCS=1
```

In order for tests not to be run, execute the following:

```
make CI=1
```

This asserts, you are executing test targets separetely, such as in the case of
integrating with CI services.

Refer to `Makefile` for insights into my development principles and workflows.
Documentation is scattered throughout the sources and each directory within this
repository.

### Use distribution

Acquire the distribution, untar everything in the archive listed in
`package/assets.txt`. Note that the paths specified in `package/assets.txt` are
relative to `package/`.

In addition you'll find a usability demonstration under `package/_docs/` within
it.

The distribution has been generated by a modified `npm pack` workflow
(`scripts/pack.ts`) as to not require an executable outside of the Node.js/npm
runtime environment. This comes at the cost of having to adhere to the npm
packaging layout, which results in the distribution being nested inside a
`package/` directory.

<a name="licensing"></a>
## Licensing

Sharing is caring! This project is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution
4.0 International License, as my focus is on monetizing services rather than
products.

You should have received a copy of the license along with this
work. If not, see <https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/>.
